docs/Software/PSU_Archive/planemo.md, before:

---
id: planemo
title: Planemo
sidebar_position: 3
---

_**Best Practices & Standards**_

- [Creating Galaxy tools](https://galaxy-iuc-standards.readthedocs.io/en/latest/best_practices.html)
- [Writing tool wrappers](https://galaxy-iuc-standards.readthedocs.io/en/latest/best_practices/tool_xml.html)

_**Tool Development**_

- [Galaxy XML Tags ](https://docs.galaxyproject.org/en/latest/dev/schema.html)
- [What is Planemo ?](https://planemo.readthedocs.io/en/latest/readme.html)
- [Building Galaxy Tools Using Planemo](https://planemo.readthedocs.io/en/latest/writing_standalone.html)
- [Galaxy Development Training Slides](https://galaxyproject.github.io/training-material/topics/dev/)

_**Publishing to GALAXY Toolshed**_

- [ToolShed Readiness Checklist](https://galaxy-iuc-standards.readthedocs.io/en/latest/best_practices/integration_checklist.html#testing-your-tool)
- [Publishing tools from Planemo](https://planemo.readthedocs.io/en/latest/publishing.html)


_Make sure you refer to the above links while writing tools and their xml wrappers. It will be easy to submit tools to `Intergalactic Utilities Commission `[IUC](https://github.com/galaxyproject/tools-iuc), if you followed the above standards. [emoji cheatsheet](https://www.webfx.com/tools/emoji-cheat-sheet/) reference used in this documentation._

# Install

- Follow the instructions in the [documentation](https://planemo.readthedocs.io/en/latest/installation.html) to install on your machine.

## Using Planemo

- Three step process that every tool need to go through :
    - `planemo lint <your_tool.xml>`
    - `planemo test  <your_tool.xml> --galaxy_root=[path to your local galaxy instance] --test_data [path to the directory containing your testdata]`
    - `planemo serve <your_tool.xml> --galaxy_root=[path to your local galaxy instance] `

- If you don't want to use (or) don't have your local galaxy for testing, `Planemo` will download & spin-up a standalone galaxy to test your wrappers. make sure you installed `Planemo` within a python environment as instructed in [installation](https://planemo.readthedocs.io/en/latest/readme.html) documentation for `Planemo`.

- Each of the above commands supports `--help` option. use it for the entire list of supported options.

- If `--no-xsd` option is used for `linting` the tool wrapper,`Planemo` finds errors and warnings within your wrappers by ignoring the validation of correct XML schema. (read the documentation for more info, you might generally want to avoid using this option)

- `planemo test` expects test data to be available in a folder named as `test-data`. you need to write tool specific tests and also provide test data for testing the wrapper, before running the command.

## Writing functional tests for Tool Wrappers

**References to writing proper tests**

- [Basic Tests](https://galaxyproject.org/admin/tools/writing-tests/)
- [Using `<tests></tests>` XML tag](https://docs.galaxyproject.org/en/latest/dev/schema.html#tool-tests)
- [Advanced Tests](https://planemo.readthedocs.io/en/latest/writing_advanced.html#test-driven-development)
- Using [`reStructuredText`](http://docutils.sourceforge.net/docs/ref/rst/restructuredtext.html) to format `help` section within the tool wrapper - [documentation](https://docs.galaxyproject.org/en/latest/dev/schema.html#tool-help)
- Use the online [restructedText editor](http://rst.ninjs.org/) to write and format your content under `<help> </help>` section for the wrapper.

- planemo creates a `tool_test_output.html` file to showing the errors and debugging information if tools fail otherwise, shows the test output.

- `planemo serve` lets you visualize the tools wrapper in GALAXY instance once it passes the tests.

**Flake8 & pycodestyle for python tools**

- Python scripts must conform to `pep8` standards and also pass `flake8`, so that your tools pass the `travisCI` tests done by `IUC`.
- `pycodestyle` is the utility to test your python scripts for pep8 coding standards

```
pycodestyle --show-pep8 --show-source --ignore=E501 <your_tool>.py
```

- For the case of submitting and testing the pep8 conformations, the IUC ignores some of the minor errors , such as E501, E201, E202. Refer the below issue on IUC, on what was actually proposed. [tools-iuc/issue/467](https://github.com/galaxyproject/tools-iuc/issues/467)

- I would install _flake8_ and _flake8-import-order_ to do a simple test to remove any errors that pop up after pep8. Below is the command to test the flake8 on the scripts within the current directory.

```
# installing flake8 and flake8-import-order
pip install flake8 flake8-import-order

# Testing for flake8 errors
flake8 --ignore=E201,E202,E501 --count .
```

- flake8 documentation : [here](http://flake8.pycqa.org/en/latest/)
- flake8-import-order : [here](https://github.com/PyCQA/flake8-import-order)
- pycodestyle documentation: [here](https://pycodestyle.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)

Commit message:

add admonishments to PSU_Archive docs
Add warning to the top of all old PSU documentation to note that it is likely out-of-date

docs/Software/PSU_Archive/planemo.md, after:

---
id: planemo
title: Planemo
sidebar_position: 3
---

:::warning
This documentation was written for setting up Planemo on the Penn State University systems. Keep this in mind if you reference these instructions as they may be out of date.
:::


_**Best Practices & Standards**_

- [Creating Galaxy tools](https://galaxy-iuc-standards.readthedocs.io/en/latest/best_practices.html)
- [Writing tool wrappers](https://galaxy-iuc-standards.readthedocs.io/en/latest/best_practices/tool_xml.html)

_**Tool Development**_

- [Galaxy XML Tags ](https://docs.galaxyproject.org/en/latest/dev/schema.html)
- [What is Planemo ?](https://planemo.readthedocs.io/en/latest/readme.html)
- [Building Galaxy Tools Using Planemo](https://planemo.readthedocs.io/en/latest/writing_standalone.html)
- [Galaxy Development Training Slides](https://galaxyproject.github.io/training-material/topics/dev/)

_**Publishing to GALAXY Toolshed**_

- [ToolShed Readiness Checklist](https://galaxy-iuc-standards.readthedocs.io/en/latest/best_practices/integration_checklist.html#testing-your-tool)
- [Publishing tools from Planemo](https://planemo.readthedocs.io/en/latest/publishing.html)


_Make sure you refer to the above links while writing tools and their xml wrappers. It will be easy to submit tools to `Intergalactic Utilities Commission `[IUC](https://github.com/galaxyproject/tools-iuc), if you followed the above standards. [emoji cheatsheet](https://www.webfx.com/tools/emoji-cheat-sheet/) reference used in this documentation._

# Install

- Follow the instructions in the [documentation](https://planemo.readthedocs.io/en/latest/installation.html) to install on your machine.

## Using Planemo

- Three step process that every tool need to go through :
    - `planemo lint <your_tool.xml>`
    - `planemo test  <your_tool.xml> --galaxy_root=[path to your local galaxy instance] --test_data [path to the directory containing your testdata]`
    - `planemo serve <your_tool.xml> --galaxy_root=[path to your local galaxy instance] `

- If you don't want to use (or) don't have your local galaxy for testing, `Planemo` will download & spin-up a standalone galaxy to test your wrappers. make sure you installed `Planemo` within a python environment as instructed in [installation](https://planemo.readthedocs.io/en/latest/readme.html) documentation for `Planemo`.

- Each of the above commands supports `--help` option. use it for the entire list of supported options.

- If `--no-xsd` option is used for `linting` the tool wrapper,`Planemo` finds errors and warnings within your wrappers by ignoring the validation of correct XML schema. (read the documentation for more info, you might generally want to avoid using this option)

- `planemo test` expects test data to be available in a folder named as `test-data`. you need to write tool specific tests and also provide test data for testing the wrapper, before running the command.

## Writing functional tests for Tool Wrappers

**References to writing proper tests**

- [Basic Tests](https://galaxyproject.org/admin/tools/writing-tests/)
- [Using `<tests></tests>` XML tag](https://docs.galaxyproject.org/en/latest/dev/schema.html#tool-tests)
- [Advanced Tests](https://planemo.readthedocs.io/en/latest/writing_advanced.html#test-driven-development)
- Using [`reStructuredText`](http://docutils.sourceforge.net/docs/ref/rst/restructuredtext.html) to format `help` section within the tool wrapper - [documentation](https://docs.galaxyproject.org/en/latest/dev/schema.html#tool-help)
- Use the online [restructedText editor](http://rst.ninjs.org/) to write and format your content under `<help> </help>` section for the wrapper.

- planemo creates a `tool_test_output.html` file to showing the errors and debugging information if tools fail otherwise, shows the test output.

- `planemo serve` lets you visualize the tools wrapper in GALAXY instance once it passes the tests.

**Flake8 & pycodestyle for python tools**

- Python scripts must conform to `pep8` standards and also pass `flake8`, so that your tools pass the `travisCI` tests done by `IUC`.
- `pycodestyle` is the utility to test your python scripts for pep8 coding standards

```
pycodestyle --show-pep8 --show-source --ignore=E501 <your_tool>.py
```

- For the case of submitting and testing the pep8 conformations, the IUC ignores some of the minor errors , such as E501, E201, E202. Refer the below issue on IUC, on what was actually proposed. [tools-iuc/issue/467](https://github.com/galaxyproject/tools-iuc/issues/467)

- I would install _flake8_ and _flake8-import-order_ to do a simple test to remove any errors that pop up after pep8. Below is the command to test the flake8 on the scripts within the current directory.

```
# installing flake8 and flake8-import-order
pip install flake8 flake8-import-order

# Testing for flake8 errors
flake8 --ignore=E201,E202,E501 --count .
```

- flake8 documentation : [here](http://flake8.pycqa.org/en/latest/)
- flake8-import-order : [here](https://github.com/PyCQA/flake8-import-order)
- pycodestyle documentation: [here](https://pycodestyle.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)
