docs/index.md, before:

## Introduction

This website contains installation guides to setup primary software packages and development infrastructure for **Mac** Workstations. Maintained and Curated by [PughLab](https://www.pughlab.psu.edu/).

## Infrastructure Details

The lab takes advantage of [GALAXY](https://galaxyproject.github.io/) to create data analysis & visualization pipelines for large-scale data processing on the [ACI-ICS](https://ics.psu.edu/about/) clusters and also leverages [XSEDE](https://www.xsede.org/) resources for compute requirements.

For day to day bioinformatics, install & start using [Script Manager.](https://github.com/CEGRcode/scriptmanager/releases)

|ICS-ACI Resource URL|
|----|
|[Account Setup](https://ics.psu.edu/computing-services/account-setup/) |
|[User's Guide](https://ics.psu.edu/computing-services/ics-aci-user-guide/)|

_Make sure you are added to the PughLab ACI allocations and relevant group space once you get an ACI account._

## Software Stacks

Below are some the Web development stacks being used in the lab.

|Project | Abbreviation | Stack |
|----|----|----|
| Yeast Epigenome Project | YEP | MERN |
| Protein Capture Reagent Program Validation | PCRP | MERN |
| Platform for Epigenetic and Genomic Research | PEGR | [MySql](https://www.mysql.com/), [Grails](https://grails.org/), [Groovy](https://groovy-lang.org/) |

- MERN Stack is made up of [MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.com/), [Express](https://expressjs.com/), [React](https://reactjs.org/), [NodeJS](https://nodejs.org/en/)

- For more project repositories, go to PughLab's [GitHub](https://github.com/CEGRcode)

#### Development Tools

- Install the missing package manager for macOS : [`Homebrew`](https://brew.sh/)
- Command line tools using Xcode, paste this command in a terminal :  `xcode-select --install`
- For `Python3` & `Python2.x` development, download & install [Anaconda](https://www.anaconda.com/)
- Install `Java8.x` and `Java JDK` before you download the latest release of [ScriptManager](https://github.com/CEGRcode/scriptmanager/releases)

## Tutorials & Reading Material

- Understanding Shell scripts, Markdown, Git and start using ACI clusters.
    - [PSU Biostars Bootcamp #day2](https://bootcamp.biostars.io/#day2)
- Beginner Web Development tutorials [MDN Web Docs](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Tutorials)
    - Web technologies at a glance.
        - [HTML](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/html5/)
        - [CSS](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/css/)
        - [Javascript](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/javascript)    
- Understanding React
    - [Why did they build React ?](https://reactjs.org/blog/2013/06/05/why-react.html)    
    - [Official React docs](https://reactjs.org/docs/getting-started.html)
- Creating REST API with Node.js
    - [video tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0oXYLzuucwE&list=PL55RiY5tL51q4D-B63KBnygU6opNPFk_q)
- Creating React Applications
    - [video tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OxIDLw0M-m0&list=PL4cUxeGkcC9ij8CfkAY2RAGb-tmkNwQHG)


## Contributors

|Name | Lab Position|
|----|----|
| Prashant Kumar Kuntala | Computational Scientist |
| Hedgie Jo | Undergraduate Researcher |
| Pierce Chaffin | Undergraduate Researcher |

Commit message:

Add links to Adobe Illustrator tutorials
Add link to tutorials useful for new students or members of the lab that need to learn adobe illustrator. Part of the "getting started" checklist.

docs/index.md, after:

## Introduction

This website contains installation guides to setup primary software packages and development infrastructure for **Mac** Workstations. Maintained and Curated by [PughLab](https://www.pughlab.psu.edu/).

## Infrastructure Details

The lab takes advantage of [GALAXY](https://galaxyproject.github.io/) to create data analysis & visualization pipelines for large-scale data processing on the [ACI-ICS](https://ics.psu.edu/about/) clusters and also leverages [XSEDE](https://www.xsede.org/) resources for compute requirements.

For day to day bioinformatics, install & start using [Script Manager.](https://github.com/CEGRcode/scriptmanager/releases)

|ICS-ACI Resource URL|
|----|
|[Account Setup](https://ics.psu.edu/computing-services/account-setup/) |
|[User's Guide](https://ics.psu.edu/computing-services/ics-aci-user-guide/)|

_Make sure you are added to the PughLab ACI allocations and relevant group space once you get an ACI account._

## Software Stacks

Below are some the Web development stacks being used in the lab.

|Project | Abbreviation | Stack |
|----|----|----|
| Yeast Epigenome Project | YEP | MERN |
| Protein Capture Reagent Program Validation | PCRP | MERN |
| Platform for Epigenetic and Genomic Research | PEGR | [MySql](https://www.mysql.com/), [Grails](https://grails.org/), [Groovy](https://groovy-lang.org/) |

- MERN Stack is made up of [MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.com/), [Express](https://expressjs.com/), [React](https://reactjs.org/), [NodeJS](https://nodejs.org/en/)

- For more project repositories, go to PughLab's [GitHub](https://github.com/CEGRcode)

#### Development Tools

- Install the missing package manager for macOS : [`Homebrew`](https://brew.sh/)
- Command line tools using Xcode, paste this command in a terminal :  `xcode-select --install`
- For `Python3` & `Python2.x` development, download & install [Anaconda](https://www.anaconda.com/)
- Install `Java8.x` and `Java JDK` before you download the latest release of [ScriptManager](https://github.com/CEGRcode/scriptmanager/releases)

## Tutorials & Reading Material

- Understanding Shell scripts, Markdown, Git and start using ACI clusters.
    - [PSU Biostars Bootcamp #day2](https://bootcamp.biostars.io/#day2)
- Beginner Web Development tutorials [MDN Web Docs](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Tutorials)
    - Web technologies at a glance.
        - [HTML](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/html5/)
        - [CSS](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/css/)
        - [Javascript](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/javascript)    
- Understanding React
    - [Why did they build React ?](https://reactjs.org/blog/2013/06/05/why-react.html)    
    - [Official React docs](https://reactjs.org/docs/getting-started.html)
- Creating REST API with Node.js
    - [video tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0oXYLzuucwE&list=PL55RiY5tL51q4D-B63KBnygU6opNPFk_q)
- Creating React Applications
    - [video tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OxIDLw0M-m0&list=PL4cUxeGkcC9ij8CfkAY2RAGb-tmkNwQHG)
- "Adobe Illustrator for Scientists"
    - [video tutorials](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=z2bcqyRxFrI&list=PLhKpKEPEAauYIsyjnIN2YXztNo7BrZVxQ)
    - very quick (7-15min) and relevant for both making conceptual diagrams and aligning figure charts
    - useful for both wet and dry lab memebers


## Contributors

|Name | Lab Position|
|----|----|
| Prashant Kumar Kuntala | Computational Scientist |
| Hedgie Jo | Undergraduate Researcher |
| Pierce Chaffin | Undergraduate Researcher |
